Release 3.2 announcement (#827)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: changelog/front-commerce-3.2-2.28.mdx

start the new year with a bang.

We are excited to introduce a range of new features and enhancements to
Front-Commerce's core. While we still prioritize core fixes and stabilization,
**we have been able to ship some significant features to Front-Commerce
Remixed**: all Magento1 modules, Adyen payment and Akamai Image Manager are now
available as standalone packages under the `@front-commerce/***` namespace.

We have also **revamped the technical foundations of the Magic Button** and
introduced a new concept called **server Services** in Front-Commerce 3.2.

The `2.x` branch also received some love with the introduction of **Attraqt
personalized recommendations** and a few bug fixes. **Be sure to upgrade to
Front-Commerce 2.28!** As time progresses, we anticipate more projects
transitioning to `3.x`, and the number of new features released for both major
versions will gradually decrease.

Let's dive in and explore what's new in Front-Commerce, and for Front-Commerce
Cloud customers…

<!-- truncate -->

import ChangelogFooter from "@site/src/components/ChangelogFooter";
import BackportList from "@site/src/components/BackportList";

> import ContactLink from "@site/src/components/ContactLink";

Reviewer: This is no longer needed, since this commit: https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/commit/5cde2a7bb491dfe528026b2d2b99c335bf0153d4

Reviewer: For more information see: https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/react#mdx-component-scope

Author: Indeed. Copy-paste!

Thanks.

projects using our Remix version.

### New extensions for Front-Commerce Remixed

With a stable foundation in place, we're now able to focus on Remixing the
remaining core Front-Commerce extensions.

This release includes the following features:

- all Magento1 modules are now available in the `@front-commerce/magento1`
  package. Follow the
  [Magento1 extension's documentation](/docs/3.x/extensions/magento1/) to learn
  how to use it.
- Adyen payment integration is also available in the `@front-commerce/adyen`
  package
- Akamai Image Manager integration is available in the
  `@front-commerce/akamai-image-manager` package

### Contribution mode and Magic Button

[Six months ago, we introduced the Magic Button](/changelog/front-commerce-2.25#empowering-content-contribution-with-the-magic-button).
A feature that improves the contribution experience and makes content editing
more efficient.

With Front-Commerce 3.x, we've revamped the technical foundations of the Magic
Button to embrace Web standards and improve how it works. This new version is
now available in Front-Commerce 3.2.

It means that all supported extensions (Magento2, Contentful…) now have full

> feature-parity with Front-Commerce 2.x when it comes to identify storefront
> content, preview unpublished content, auto-refresh etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature-parity with Front-Commerce 2.x when it comes to identifying storefront
content, previewing unpublished content, auto-refresh etc.
```

register some custom logic using loaders. Examples:

- `loaders.Sitemap.registerNodesFetcher`
- `loaders.Page.registerUrlMatcher`
- `loaders.ContentMetadataExtractorRegistry.register`

It forced developers to manually create loaders when wanting to use these
features outside of a GraphQL context, such as in an express middleware.

**What?** Server Services is our proposal for relocating such responsibilities
outside of "loaders", so that GraphQL loaders remains only responsible for
fetching data from remote sources.

**How?** We've introduced a lifecycle hook API that allows developers to
register custom logic into core Services. Core Service are injected more
globally, and can be used in GraphQL (context enhancers, loaders, resolvers) but
also in application's routes as they're part of the `FrontCommerceApp` object.

You can read
[the current API design in our documentation](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/defineExtension#unstable_lifecyclehooks).
We'd love to hear your feedbacks on this, **please let us know how you feel
about this!**

### Other changes

```mdx-code-block
<details>
  <summary><h3 className="mb-0">Performance improvements</h3></summary>
```

> - Layout and root route never revalidate anymore by default, to prevent useless
>   extra HTTP requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Layout and root route no longer revalidates by default, to prevent useless
  extra HTTP requests
```

Author: Applied. Thanks.

```mdx-code-block
</details>
```

```mdx-code-block
<details>
  <summary><h3 className="mb-0">Features</h3></summary>
```

- A feature flag has been added to check whether the `ordersFilters` feature is
  supported by the backend in use.

> - We added a front-commerce script to check for unused SCSS variables and CSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We added a front-commerce cli script to check for unused SCSS variables and CSS
```

Reviewer: If https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/pull/826 were merged, we would be able to link to the cli documentation, or extract it to this MR? https://deploy-preview-826--heuristic-almeida-1a1f35.netlify.app/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-remix/#find-unused-style-variables

Author: I've added the link. Since we'll merge the other MRs soon after and can leave with a dead link for a few hours.

(contact your Attraqt representative to find the best way for your use case), as
soon as you have the user profile ID, you can use it to display
[personalized recommendations](https://attraqt.gitbook.io/developer-documentation/xo-recommendations/using-the-recommendations-api#personalised-recommendation).

The Attraqt recommendations loader
[now accepts an optional `profileId` parameter](/docs/2.x/magento2/search-engine#attraqt-recommendations-usage-example)
that can be used to display personalized recommendations.

### Bug Fixes

- **adyen:** when using the Magento2 module, the `amount` (and `countryCode`)
  are now properly passed to Apple Pay
- **twicpics:** the aspect ratio is now properly computed every time when using
  the `twicpics` image adapter
- **ui**: the `<ProductListSlider />` component is now more resilient to
  incorrect data passed, and can display an empty component instead of crashing

## Front-Commerce Cloud got an upgrade

We've upgraded our Front-Commerce Cloud infrastructure during the end of the
year. Without entering into too much technical details, **you should expect a
better performance and a better stability for your Front-Commerce Cloud

> projects.** You may already have noticed them already!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projects.** You may have already noticed it!
```

Author: Applied. Thanks.

This upgrade contains several improvements **consolidating our experience with
Front-Commerce Cloud projects over the years**. These changes have been rolled
out progressively during the last weeks, without noticeable downtime for your
projects.

We rolled out improvements to how Front-Commerce projects are deployed and
managed:

- we are now able to handle unexpected huge traffic spikes more efficiently with
  a specific "operation" mode that can be enabled within minutes
- [we now support the Stale-While-Revalidate HTTP cache strategy](https://web.dev/articles/stale-while-revalidate?hl=fr),
  for instant page loads
- we've improved the way staging and production environments are handled, to
  reduce the risk of side effects while maintaining a high level of similarity
  between environments
- we also introduced a future-proof DNS configuration for every project, to ease
  any future transitions

Finally these changes enables improvements you'll see very soon. For example,
you'll be autonomous to flush the HTTP cache of your project, for a specific URL

> a directory or the whole project. This will be useful to quickly update the
> cache after a content update for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a directory or the whole project. This will be useful to quickly flush the
cache after a content update.
```

Author: Applied. Thanks.
